MUNICIPALITIES
Ísafjarðarbær (15.2% lowest) is a municipality with persistent depopulation, situated in Vestfirðir and has the population of 3623. Ísafjarðarbær has the lowest depopulation rate of the once that fall under the icelandic regional development institute definition of municipalities with persistent depopulation. Ísafjarðarbær has minor gaps in its age pyramid, and if we look at the ratio between males and females we can see that it's very close to 50 percent which. If we compare this ratio to the mean of municipalities with persistent depopulation we can see that the diffrence today is 0.8 percentage points. Ísafjarðarbær spends below every comparison group in social service, above national average in sports- and youth activities and culture.
Breiðdalshreppur (33.1% highest) is a municipality with persistent depopulation, situated in Austurland and has the population of 188. Breiðdalshreppur has the highest depopulation rate of the once that fall under the icelandic regional development institute definition of municipalities with persistent depopulation. Breiðdalshreppur has huge gaps in its age pyramid. Most of the population in Breiðdalshreppur are in the age between 45-80 which is quite high compared to the national average. Like other municipalities with persistent depopulation there are more males than females in Breiðdalshreppur, if we compare the gender ratio in Breiðdalshreppur with the mean of municipalities with persistent depopulation we can see that the diffrence is 2.2 percentage points today. Breiðdalshreppur spends below every comparison group in social service, sports- and yout activites, but slightly higer than the national average in culture.
Norðurþing (17.2%, Q1) is a municipality with persistent depopulation, situated in Norðurland eystra and has the population of 2806. When we look at Norðurþing's age pyramid we see that the majority of the population is in age range of 40-60, as we go down the pyramid we see gaps appearing. If we look at the ratio between males and females in Norðurþing we see that males are 50.5 percent of the population. When we compare this ratio to the mean of municipalities with persistent depopulation we can see that the diffrence today is 0.8 percentage points. Norðurþing, unlike other municipalities with persistent depopulation, spends more than average on social service. On the other hand it spends less on sports- and youth activities and culture.
Skaftárhreppur (21.4%, Q3) is a municipality with persistent depopulation, situated in Suðurland and has the population of 459. Skaftárhreppur is the only municipality in Suðurland with persistent depopulation. When looking at the age pyramid we see big gaps for 35-55 and 0-20, and the average age is quite higher compared to the national average. Males are 55 percent of the population which is 4.4 percentage points more compared to municipalities with persistent depopulation. Skaftárhreppur spends lower than all comparison goups on social service, but more than all comparison groups on sports- and youth activities and culture.

LINEPLOT
http://188.166.5.252/plot/log/preset/7/ When we look at Austurland we see a population influx from 2003-2009. We quickly realised that this was caused by the construction of Kárahnjúkar. We then looked specifically at Fljótsdalshreppur, where Kárahnjúkar are situated, and noticed something interesting. In 2007 males were 90.3 percent of the population in Fljótsdalshreppur. 
Ísafjarðarbær was formed in 1996 when it merged with Flateyrarhreppur, Mosvallahreppur, Suðureyrarhreppur and Þingeyrarhreppur. In 1996, after the merge, the population was 4519, by the end of 2014 it was down to 3623, 19.8%.
The same is for Vesturbyggð, it was created in 1994 when Barðastrandarhreppur, Rauðasandshreppur, Bíldudalshreppur and Patrekshreppur were merged together. In 1994 the population was 1390, by the end of 2014 it was down to 997, 28.3%.
However, when we look at a municipality in the same region and has never been merged nor splitted we see another story. Bolungarvík had the population of 958 in 2000, by the end of 2014 it was 927, 3.2%.
Look at different regions and see how population has changed over the years.

RESULTS?
Smaller municipalities have big gaps in their age pyramid for both genders. Municipalities with persistent depopulation have higher precentage of males than females, avg 51.14 percent compared to avg 50.09 percent for municiplaities with persistent population growth. The difference is 1.05 percentage points.
Regarding the percentage of males in Iceland we noticed an inflation in male population around 2005, this could be foreign labor. 
When looking at the age pyramid for different municipalities we can see that the pyramid get closer to the mean when the population gets higher.
When looking at municipalities with persistent depopulation we noticed that they spend much less on social service than municipalities with persistent population growth, but they spend more on sports- and youth activities and culture then municipalitites with persistent population growth. We do not believe that this is the cause of depopulation. We see this more as a symptom. 
On average the percentage of males in municipalities with persistent population growth is higer than females, 51.03 / 48.97. The national average is 50.19 percent males and 49.81 percent females. On average the percentage of males in municipalities with persistent population growth is lower than females, 49.99 / 50.01. Again, we see this as a symptom rather than a cause for depopulation / popualation growth.
